Update articles and vb code (#15823)
dotnet/docs: docs/visual-basic/programming-guide/concepts/linq/how-to-combine-linq-queries-with-regular-expressions.md

---
title: "How to combine LINQ queries with regular expressions (Visual Basic)"
ms.date: 07/20/2015
ms.assetid: 3da1bd10-b0d8-4d5b-a637-966891c13592
---
# How to combine LINQ queries with regular expressions (Visual Basic)

This example shows how to use the <xref:System.Text.RegularExpressions.Regex> class to create a regular expression for more complex matching in text strings. The LINQ query makes it easy to filter on exactly the files that you want to search with the regular expression, and to shape the results.

## Example

```vb
Imports System.IO

> Imports System.Linq

Reviewer: System.Linq is imported by default. Should we remove it?

```suggestion
```

    ' Function to retrieve a list of files. Note that this is a copy
    ' of the file information.
    Shared Function GetFiles(root As String) As IEnumerable(Of FileInfo)
        Return From file In My.Computer.FileSystem.GetFiles(
                   root, FileIO.SearchOption.SearchAllSubDirectories, "*.*")
               Select New FileInfo(file)
    End Function

End Class
```

Note that you can also query the <xref:System.Text.RegularExpressions.MatchCollection> object that is returned by a `RegEx` search. In this example only the value of each match is produced in the results. However, it is also possible to use LINQ to perform all kinds of filtering, sorting, and grouping on that collection. Because <xref:System.Text.RegularExpressions.MatchCollection> is a non-generic <xref:System.Collections.IEnumerable> collection, you have to explicitly state the type of the range variable in the query.

## Compiling the code

> Create a VB.NET console application project, with an `Imports` statement for the System.Linq namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a VB.NET console application project, copy and paste the code sample, and adjust the Startup object value in the project properties.
```
